# **Dynamic web pages with JavaScript**

>  ***JavaScript***

* **JavaScript** (JS) - is a lightweight, interpreted, or just-in-time compiled programming language with first-class functions. 

  * ***Do not confuse*** JavaScript with the Java programming language. Both "Java" and "JavaScript". They are two different programming languages that have very different syntax, semantics, and use.

Read more [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)

> ***Introduction to JavaScript - basic output***

* We can distinguish 3 major parts of what we usually refer to as "JavaScript".

  * The language itself. This is fairly standard among the various environments, both in the various browsers and in the various server-side environments.
  * The DOM API - how the language can interact with the various parts of a web page while in the browser. While in this respect the various browsers are getting closer to each other they still differ. Several libraries, most prominently JQuery, is trying to provide a unified API.
  * The server API (or just API) provided by Node.js or one of the other server-side systems.

* You can embed the JavaScript code directly inside the HTML file, or you can put a line in the HTML file that will include the external JavaScript file. 

* **alert** - This will show a pop-up in the browser with the text. Rarely used, but it is an easy way to show the use of JavaScript.

* **document.write** - function to change the content of the page.

* **console.log** - usually print out debugging information. Web browsers provide what is called a "JavaScript console". It is an additional window which is normally not visible, where the browser can print out warnings and errors generated by the execution of the JavaScript code. The developer can also print information to this console using the console.log() call.

* More info click [here](https://code-maven.com/introduction-to-javascript)

> ***JavaScript input with prompt and confirm***

* **prompt** - It will show a pop-up window with the text provided as the first parameter and with a textbox the user can fill in.

* **Confirm** - Allows the developer to ask a Yes/No question. Calling the confirm() function will show a pop-up window with the provided texts and with two buttons.

* Read more [here](https://code-maven.com/javascript-input-with-prompt-and-confirm)

> ***JavaScript Variables***

* **Variables** - Are containers for storing data (storing data values).

* ***Always*** declare JavaScript variables with
  * var
  * let
  * const

\- var keyword is used in all JavaScript code from 1995 to 2015.

\- The let and const keywords were added to JavaScript in 2015.

\- If you want your code to run in older browsers, you must use var.

* ***Always*** declare variables with const.

* If you think the value of the variable can change, use let.

\- ***Remember*** Variables are containers for storing values.

> ***JavaScript Identifiers***

* All JavaScript variables must be identified with unique names. These unique names are called **identifiers**.

* **Identifiers** - Can be short names (like x and y) or more descriptive names (age, sum, totalVolume).

> ***The Assignment Operator***

* In JavaScript, the equal sign (=) is an "assignment" operator, not an "equal to" operator.

> ***JavaScript Data Types***

* **JavaScript** variables can hold numbers like 100 and text values like "John Doe". In programming, text values are called text strings.

* For **WAY** more info click [Here](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_variables.asp)

[Return to home page](../README.md)